[x]Table joins: empty "Field prefix" is turned into "_".
I joined a DBF file to a Shapefile attribute table.
I set the "Field prefix" option for both tables to an
empty value. Still, in the joined result I got all attribute
table fields prefixed with a single "_".

[x]Symbology->Categories->Expressions: joined fields are missing
from "Fields" list in "Expression creator" dialogue.

[x]Symbology->Categories->Expressions: specifying an invalid (unknown)
field name throws an ugly error.
Try a bogus expression, like:
[THIS_FIELD_IS_A_FAKE] > 10.0
or just:
abcdefg < 100.0
Then click "Verify".
The result will be an ugly Java error:
java.lang.NumberFormatException: For input string: "..."
There should really be a message saying that the field name is
unknown/invalid.
The same is true for any field name not written in "[]" brackets,
even if it is a valid field. The error message should also remind
users that field names need to be specified in square brackets.

[x]Georeferencing tool: Clicking the "center_locator" icon in a "Georeferencing view" 
window does not update the corresponding "Zoom control" window.

[x]Georefencing tool: Activating "Zoom selecting area" straight after creating a new
point (and before placing it somewhere) results in bad behaviour. When disabling
the zoom tool again, then left-clicking into the image ("Georeferencing view"), 
I have experienced first no reaction at all, then a "java.lang.NullPointerException". 
Clicking into the "Zoom control" window will work as expected and place the point,
however.

[x]Georeferencing tool: "Tabulator" key does not work as expected in the control
points list widget. Hitting tab gives the focus to the next field, but it does
not mark the contents for overwrite. this means that before entering a coordinate,
the user must first delete the old field contents (e.g. "0.0" for defaults), which
results in unnecessary typting work. Also before clicking into the field with the
mouse, the input cursor remains invisible.

[x]Georeferencing tool: Placing control point in "Zoom control window" does not work
right after moving the zoom marker in the "Georeferencing view". 
This only seems to affect newly created points: Create a new point, then, before
doing anything else, move the zoom marker (red rectangle) in the "Georeferencing
view". Then, click into the "Zoom control" to place the new point:
Left mouse clicks are ignored until the point marker is placed in the "Georeferencing view". 
After that, placing it in the "Zoom control" window will also work again as expected.

[x]Georeferencing tool: Cannot test affine transformation with 3 control points.
Clicking "Test georeferencing" on an image with 3 control points give me an
error that 21 points are needed? Is that correct? Should for the most simple
affine transformation 2 points not be enough?

[x]Georeferencing tool: Testing georeferencing crashes for an image with 3 control points
and a 1st degree polynomial transformation. I set the algorithm to polynomial, 1st order
and nearest neighbour interpolation. After placing 3 control points and clicking
"Test georeferencing", the program works hard for a while, then throws an error:
"java.lang.NullPointerException".

[x]Map layout tool: Undo icon is missing.
Actually, the icon is there but it's just a big red square.

[x]CAD Editor: Editing a layer with symbology on joined fields
throws an error.
I joined some fields from a DBF file to a shapefile. I created
an "intervals" type symbology on one of the joined fields.
I then started editing the layer. It advised me that the joined
fields will have to be dropped. I accepted and then got an error
message:
java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: -1
I closed the error message window. The CAD editor was functional,
but the layer's TOC entry still showed the old symbology legend
which actually should have been deleted.

[x]CAD Editor: crashes when editing a layer with "Expression" type symbology.
I used the "Expression" type symbology to hide some features in
a shapefile layer (no joined fields). I then started to edit it.
It was a polygon type layer, so I drew a new polygon. After finishin
the polygon, I hit "Esc" to get back into selection mode. The result
was an empty error console. I tried closing it by hitting "Accept",
but it kept popping up again after a second, forcing me to shut-down
gvSIG completely.

[x]Add Layer does not release .RMF file handle properly (Windows XP)
I created a new View, then I chose "Add layer". I clicked "Add", selected
a raster file (a .TIF image) and clicked "Open" to add it to the list
of layers to load. I then changed my mind and clicked "Cancel" to close
the "Add layer" window without loading anything. Next, I tried to delete
the file by dragging it to the Windows XP trashcan. I got an error message
from Windows XP telling me that the file was still in use. I had to quit
gvSIG before I could delete the file even though I had never actually
loaded it into the View.

[x]Prevent zoom cursor in Georeferencing view from being dragged to Nirvana
Georeferencing view: the zoom cursor can be dragged to outside the limits of
the window. If that happens, there is no way to get it back!?

