[x]Georeferencing tool: Clicking "X" (in the "Register:" control bar) deletes all
control points without warning. This is unacceptable, as the icon is right next
to the "delete single point" icon and easy to mix up. This will inevitably cause
users to delete all of their control points accidentally.

[x]Table tools: add progress display to Statistics tool.
I have found that calculating statistics for a table field
can take very long. So long that the application almost
feels like it crashed. Apart from the obvious request to
speed up these calculations, I would like to see some sort
of progress indicator with a "Cancel" button here.

[x]Table tools: add sampling option to Statistics tool.
For attribute tables with very many entries, the user
should have an option to compute table statistics using
only a random sample of n% or n rows of the table.
That would greatly speed things up,.

[x]CAD Editor: improve panning and zooming support while digitizing.
I have found zooming with the mouse wheel to work while digitizing,
but could find no way to pan.
For example, the cursor keys would work perfectly well for that purpose.
Actually, for every tool in the CAD editor, it should be possible to
use the standard Zoom and Pan tools in the main icon toolbar.
E.g. when digitizing a line, I might like to use the Pan tool,
then zoom out, then click on the line tool again to continue
digitizing the line. I have found that this works for the polygon
tool, but it did not work for the line, arc and rectangle tools
(those were the only ones I tried).

[x]CAD Editor: option to visualize all vertices.
The CAD Editor currently visualizes the vertices of selected
objects. For some digitizing tasks it can be very helpful
to see the vertices of all objects (e.g. when trying to
construct perfectly overlapping or adjacent, non-overlapping
shapes).

[x]Table->Join: Make the "Source Table" the currently active table.
The table displayed on the first page of the "Table join"
dialogue should be the table that is currently active.
udeful for projects with a long lists of tables and
repetitive joining tasks.

[x]Table-Join:
Use font color or style to mark joined fields.
The current implementation gives the user a choice to
use a field prefix for marking joined fields. This is
very useful but in some cases users may want to use no
field prefixes in order to keep field names short.
How about using color or text style attribtues (bold,
italics,...) to mark names of joined fields in the
attribute table list(s)? Or maybe a different background
for the field name box?

[x]Table->Join:
Put "Join" and "Remove joins" into layer context menu.
Currently, getting to the Join function from a View
requires to many mouse actions. It would be faster to have
access to the Join function from the right-click context
menu of a vector layer's TOC entry in the View. 
Ideally, the Join source table should then be automatically
set to the table of that layer.

[x]Table-Join.
Add a "Rejoin" item to layer context menu.
There are cases, such as editing a vector layer, when an
existing Join needs to be dropped. Re-executing the Join
function can be time-consuming. Therefore, it would be
great to have a "Rejoin" item for vector layer's that had
external tables joined to them. This function should
simply re-run the last join, using the exact same options
the user had orginally specified.

[x]Add a "Recent projects" list to "File" menu.
GvSIG should really keep a list with the last 10 or so
recently opened project files, so the user will have
a quicker of loading a previously opened project.

{x]Quick Info Tool: Needs a better way to turn it off. 
It is not easy for the user to understand that hitting "Clear selection",
then "Cancel" actually deactivates the tool. This can lead to serious
frustration for the user.
The icon in the main icon bar should be a two-state icon: show quick info
setup window and set icon to indicate active state at first click.
Deactivate quick info tool on second click. Likewise, please indicate
Alternatively: add "Deactivate" button to the setup window. 
Actually, just removing the "Cancel button" and renaming "Clear selection"
to "Deactivate" may make also do the job of improving user interface logics.
Likewise, the menu entry in "View->Query" should have some status
indication.

[x]Georeferencing tool: The "Move image" and "Zoom selecting area" in the
a "Georeferencing view" windows are missing a specific cursor shape.
Thus, there is no visual feedback for the user to understand that
either tool is active. I suggest using the same cursor shapes as in
the main gvSIG tools for panning (the little hand) and zooming (the
magnifying glass).

[x]Symbology->Categories->Expressions: hidden features stay active.
If I hide some feature using the "Expression" type symbology, they
will stay active in the data View. This gives misleading results
when using the "Info" tool, as attribute table data for hidden feature
will still be displayed. The same is true for the "Quick Info" tool.

[x]CAD Editor: allow to undo vertices wben drawing a polygon.
This is the no. 1 feature I get asked about by all new gvSIG users
when they first use the CAD editor for drawing a polyline/polygon.
Ideally, there should be an option "Undo last" in the context menu
for the Polyline tool. This should allow the user to delete the most
recently placed vertex (and then, if needed, the one before that etc.
until the first vertex is reached).

[x]Georeferencing tool: allow to use it even if no other layer has been
added to the view
Currently, the Raster Tools menu icon is not available for a blank
View without any layers. Unfortunately, this also means that the
georeferencer is not available. The georeferencer would actually
work perfectly well as a stand-alone tool, without the need to
load any other data into the project first.

A quicker way to exit the georeferencing tool.
Currently, exiting the tool requires answering two questions
(1st whether to really quit, 2nd whether to save the georeferencing).
This is not only time-wasting but may also be confusing for the unwary user.
I think it would be better to have just one dialog that says:
"Do you want to exit now and save the georeferencing?"
|Yes|  |No|   |Cancel|







